# BIG-data-analytics-authentication-of-bank-notes

In cash transactions, the biggest challenge faced is counterfeit or fake notes. This issue is only expanding due to the technology available and many fraud cases have been uncovered. Over the past few years, as a result of the great technological advances in color printing, duplicating and scanning, counterfeiting problems have become more and more serious. In earlier days, the bank notes were printed at a specific place because a special printing machine was used and there was no means to fake those notes with perfection. Nowadays anyone with a laser printer at can make counterfeit or fake notes. 
Therefore, this issue of differentiatingbetween a counterfeit or fake banknote and the actual note using an automatic machine has become more and more crucial. Counterfeit or fake notes are an issue of concern to almost every country and it has become a very acute problem.  
To counter this problem of fake notes, there is a need to design such an authentication system which can differentiate between the fake notes and the real one. This proposed system describes an approach for verification of banknotes. Thisbank note will be verified by using machine learning technique. In this proposed system, four characteristic features which are extractedare used and we apply our authentication algorithm on it. The approach consists of a number of characteristics including Variance, Skewness, Curtosis, Entropy. These characteristics will be used in the authentication algorithmto train our model on real bank notes and after training we will test the model on a series of real and fake notes to determine the feasibility of the model. Bank note recognition with good accuracy and high processing speed has great importance for banking system. PySpark is used to make the authentication model and to perform on the characteristic features of notes. The proposed method has advantages of simplicity and high speed. The result will be whether currency is genuine or counterfeit. 
